---
id: 1
title: Understand what people need
---

#### Agile First
As an agile company, our goal is to deliver the best product possible.  By the nature of agile delivery, we seek to educate all stakeholders on the criticality of their involvement throughout the development process.  The best products are not created in a silos, but instead are refined overtime as the team adjusts to feedback.  Therefore understanding what people need is less of an act that occurs  at the beginning of a project and more so a constant evolving act.  

- [Scrum: Doing twice the work in half the time](http://www.amazon.com/Scrum-Doing-Twice-Work-Half/dp/038534645X/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1430238726&sr=8-1)
- [Agile: Iterative & Incremental](http://www.mountaingoatsoftware.com/blog/agile-needs-to-be-both-iterative-and-incremental)

#### Surveys
Surveys are critical to quickly gaining an understanding of how  organizations behave in relation to a problem.  While not a complete solution, they are the most effective unobtrusive method for interaction with the possible entire user base.

#### Stakeholder Meetings
Nothing can replace developing a relationship with the product's stakeholder.  While there are key stakeholders who have a larger say in the overall product roadmap, any potential user of the software is a stakeholder.  Face to face meetings combined with other tools like group chat and email help develop a tight feedback loop between the people creating the product and those who will us it on a day to day basis.

#### Tools

- [Google Docs](https://docs.google.com)
- [Google Forms](https://www.google.com/forms/about/)
- Regular ol' e-mail and face time


We must begin digital projects by exploring and pinpointing the needs of the people who will use the service, and the ways the service will fit into their lives. Whether the users are members of the public or government employees, policy makers must include real people in their design process from the beginning. The needs of people — not constraints of government structures or silos — should inform technical and design decisions. We need to continually test the products we build with real people to keep us honest about what is important.

#### checklist
1. Early in the project, spend time with current and prospective users of the service
2. Use a range of qualitative and quantitative research methods to determine people’s goals, needs, and behaviors; be thoughtful about the time spent
3. Test prototypes of solutions with real people, in the field if possible
4. Document the findings about user goals, needs, behaviors, and preferences
5. Share findings with the team and agency leadership
6. Create a prioritized list of tasks the user is trying to accomplish, also known as "user stories"
7. As the digital service is being built, regularly test it with potential users to ensure it meets people’s needs

#### key questions
- Who are your primary users? How often are you testing with real people?
- What user needs will this service address?
- Why does the user want or need this service?
- Which people will have the most difficulty with the service?
