---
id: 2
title: Address the whole experience, from start to finish
---

#### UX & UI
By incorporating User Experience (UX) and User Interface (UI) principles into our design process, our goal is to develop products that provide the interfaces any user would expect from a modern web app.  This includes building Responsive Web Pages and when possible providing Mobile Applications (iOS, Android, Blackberry) that provide native interaction with the application data.

[Usability.gov - Personas](http://www.usability.gov/how-to-and-tools/methods/personas.html)
[User Experience Defined](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_experience)
[User Interface Defined](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_interface)





We need to understand the different ways people will interact with our services, including the actions they take online, through a mobile application, on a phone, or in person. Every encounter — whether it's online or offline — should move the user closer towards their goal.

#### checklist
1. Understand the different points at which people will interact with the service – both online and in person
2. Identify pain points in the current way users interact with the service, and prioritize these according to user needs
3. Design the digital parts of the service so that they are integrated with the offline touch points people use to interact with the service
4. Develop metrics that will measure how well the service is meeting user needs at each step of the service


#### key questions
- What are the different ways (both online and offline) that people currently accomplish the task the digital service is designed to help with?
- Where are user pain points in the current way people accomplish the task?
- Where does this specific project fit into the larger way people currently obtain the service being offered?
- What metrics will best indicate how well the service is working for its users?


title: Make it simple and intuitive

Using a government service shouldn’t be stressful, confusing, or daunting. It’s our job to build services that are simple and intuitive enough that users succeed the first time, unaided.

#### checklist
1. Create or use an existing, simple, and flexible design style guide for the service
2. Use the design style guide consistently for related digital services
3. Give users clear information about where they are in each step of the process
4. Follow accessibility best practices to ensure all people can use the service
5. Provide users with a way to exit and return later to complete the process
6. Use language that is familiar to the user and easy to understand
7. Use language and design consistently throughout the service, including online and offline touch points

#### key questions
- What primary tasks are the user trying to accomplish?
- Is the language as plain and universal as possible?
- What languages is your service offered in?
- If a user needs help while using the service, how do they go about getting it?
- How does the service’s design visually relate to other government services?
